So you might be thinking that the criteria that we went over in a previous lecture about how to pick
a good freelancer you might think that that is not bulletproof and you might still have a little bit
of anxiety around picking someone and giving are growing a large amount of money and you're not even
sure whether or not they're going to be able to produce what you want.
At first I say go offer those five criteria I had listed before.
That's never going to let you down.
But there is one way that you can take this validation to the next step.
I call this the $50 test because it costs about $50 or $100.
It's a very small amount of money.
Now what you want to do and this is a tactic that's worked for me many many many times.
This is actually how I've developed some of my longest lasting contractor relationships is once you've
whittled down your list down to a very short list maybe you're talking two or three people or firms
try taking off a very small side task and assigning it to them and then paying them for it.
Now the whole idea behind this is you just want to validate how they actually operate.
Once you are a client now a lot of people are really good at pitching themselves and selling themselves
and of them have really flashy portfolios but you can never be 100 percent sure until you actually work
with them.
Now if you just pick something really simple I suggest once you pick your graphic design what you can
do is you can take that graphic design and in a lot of cases it's just going to be an image like a photoshop
file or you bought a template and you have an aged him file what you can do is you can assign them a
very small task.
So if it's a photoshop file just an image tell them that you want this to be converted into H.T. amounts.
SS That is a relatively cheap task that shouldn't cost you a ton of money.
And if you have an H DML template send it to them and say I want to change something about it trying
to change something.
Really anything.
Say you know changing the width of something or changing the look around something.
The point is is that once you give them a small piece to work with and then you can see how well you
actually operate together.
Whenever I do this almost invariably 50 percent of the people I give this tiny little $100 $50 test
to they end up just failing all of a sudden the responsiveness changes all of a sudden I notice that
there's a much larger gap in our communication than I thought before a lot and all of a sudden I find
out that they don't really have the same design sensibilities that I previously thought they had or
what was implied by looking at their portfolios.
So in short give them the ultimate test if you're not sure if you want to work with them or you have
a bunch of freelancers that you rate them all kind of equally and you don't know which way to go.
Try tearing off a tiny little bit of work.
Give it to them and then see how they operate.
I guarantee you one of them will stick out way above the other ones and I'll make a decision so much
easier.
$50 or $100.
It's not a lot of money when you consider how much money you could be spending on this person.
And also think about whether or not your application actually takes off gets a lot of users gets lots
of attention.
You're going to want this developer to be in it for the long haul in case you need them.
And so you're going to kick yourself in the head if you don't do a really simple validation trick and
later down the line you find out this person is a lot more flaky than you thought you find out that
they are not nearly as good at design or understanding what good web development standards are.
You know there's a lot of different red flags that will come down later and you just want to make sure
that it's not too late.
When you notice them and this is hands down the best tactic I've ever used.